(upbeat music)
- [Instructor] We're going to do a back-to-back challenge,
so you get more experience working with collections.
In this challenge,
the Landen Hotel has provided three additional methods
on the room service class for you to implement.
Like last time,
they've provided a unit test for you to check your work.
And within the body of each method,
they've included the instructions
for exactly what the method needs to do.
The first method, hasRoom,
will check if the room provided to this method
as an argument,
is found within our collection inventory.
If it is, it'll return the boolean true.
If it's not, it will return the boolean false.
The next method, asArray,
is going to return an array that contains all of the rooms
found in our inventory collection
in the order they were added.
That last part about order is really important,
and you'll want to keep that in mind
while you're working on your solution.
The final method is getByType.
This method is expected to return a new collection
containing all the rooms that match the type
passed into the method as an argument.
So you'll recall that our room class has a type field.
You'll want to compare the argument
that is provided into this method against that field.
And that's going to determine whether or not
you return the room in the new collection.
Now there's one really important instruction here.
The room inventory collection must not be modified,
and the unit test will check for it.
So here you might consider using a copy of the collection.
Okay. That's the challenge.
Go ahead and pause the lesson.
Then when you're ready,
hit the play button,
and I'll share my solution.
Hey, welcome back.
That was a little bit more challenging, right?
Let me show you my solution.
So for the first method, hasRoom,
I knew that the collection interface
had the contains method on it.
So I went ahead and invoked the contains method
on our inventory collection
and passed in the room that was provided to the method.
I knew this would return the right results,
because we had previously overridden
the equals and hashCode methods.
So it was just a matter of executing the statement
and returning its results in line with the return statement.
Okay, let's go ahead,
and we'll move on to our next method, asArray.
For me, this method was kind of a two-parter.
First, I knew I needed to select the right method
on the collection interface.
So I ultimately went with the asArray method.
So I invoked it on the inventory collection.
And then I chose the overloaded form of the method
that accepts an array.
So I declared a new room array
and pass that into the method.
Now what this does for us
is it types the array that is returned
by the toArray method.
This helps us avoid a cast.
Now if we were to execute our unit tests at this point,
they would still fail,
because we have this requirement to maintain order.
If we inspect the implementation that we're using
for our collection,
you'll notice it's the HashSet.
The HashSet doesn't guarantee order.
So I had to switch up the implementation
that we were using for our collection.
I switched over to the linked HashSet
that maintains insertion order.
So as we add elements into the collection,
it's going to hold them in the order they were added.
Now you might have chosen to use
one of the list implementations that maintains order.
That works.
So at this point,
I think we're good on the tests.
But before we run them,
let's go finish up our last method, getByType.
This method was also a two-parter for me.
So the way I started out
was by using the removeIf method.
I invoked it on our inventory collection.
And then I passed in a lambda expression
to the removeIf method that check the type of the room
and compared it against the provided type
and made sure they weren't equal.
This would remove all of the rooms
from the inventory collection
that didn't match the provided type.
Now before we go any further,
let me talk a little bit about the lambda expression.
A lambda is a function that only specifies a parameter
and a body.
You'll notice it doesn't have a name,
and we don't specify the return type.
The return type is inferred by the statement
that I have highlighted.
Between the parameter and the body,
we place an arrow token to construct our lambda.
All right, so that's a little bit about lambdas.
We'll talk about those more later.
Let's get back to our problem.
Methods like removeIf,
remove and add,
they're going to modify the underlying collection,
and collections are mutable.
Our requirements say that the room inventory collection
must not be modified.
So I needed to find a way to handle this.
To do that,
I used a conversion constructor.
So I declared a collection that had a generic type of room.
And then I instantiated a HashSet
and passed in the inventory collection
to its conversion constructor.
This created a new collection implementation
that is not linked to the original,
so I can modify it
without impacting our inventory collection.
So to do that,
let's just go ahead,
and we'll change over from using our inventory collection
to the copy.
The copy will have the rooms
that don't match the type removed by the lambda expression.
And then we can just go ahead
and return that collection that has been modified.
And all this doesn't change the room inventory collection.
Okay. It's the big moment.
It's time to run the tests.
So I'll just right-click within the unit tests,
go to Run as,
and then I'll select JUnit test.
Hey, it looks like things past.
Anytime you're running tests,
you want to see green.
So that's how I solved the challenge.
Maybe you found another way.
When working with collections,
using the right method to achieve your goals
can save you quite a bit of code
and build more concise solutions.
So anytime you feel like your collections code
is getting a little bit cluttered,
head over to the Java docs
and see if you can find a method
that does exactly what you want.